Now, we go back to Athena where it all started and actually it might not be loaded,
so we need to refresh,
okay, and we open,
oh, here is our new database.
Fantastic. Actually, accidentally here,
I have this ds-store file created from my MacBook,
I guess I can just delete the table.
But it takes a while to refresh.
Anyhow, I'm going to continue here with the proper tables,
actually you see the payments here.
If I click here and I say preview table,
oh, here's the table and the data was important.
Just try to actually recall what we just did.
The only thing we did,
is that we have data in S3.
We went here, and said create table,
we went to the AWS glue crawler.
We pointed the crawler to
our folder that has all the tables as CSVs and we just waited one minute.
Then, we have a database that we can query.
It's a schema on read at its finest.
We don't even have to create an EMR cluster tool.
Actually, here I prepared,
if you remember from lesson one about data warehousing,
here is our normal q.
Here is just that,
I will, instead of costing,
that will not be very easy here.
So I'm going to date parse the payment date because it's a string here,
and the date parsing with actually converted for me as a timestamp.
Then, I'm going to get the month exactly using the month's function here.
Then, this actually does the cube for us.
The semantics of the SQL are somewhat different.
So actually, I have to take,
like this is a new table here.
Then, we have select from and group by and order by,
just because you cannot do as months and group by here in Athena.
But actually, it works in Spark, but not here in Athena.
So that's a minor SQL difference.
So I did it as select from a select statement.
We run this query and we get our OLAP cube here.
Here's the fact and here are the dimensions.
You can also do select into and create
all your facts and dimensions table with a star schema.